# Capstone
Retargeting Optimization for Refinancing Car Loans: A Case Study of a US-based Lender 

# Running files
- Go by the link https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OyCQ-122LYuw_nW7z5BYFk2e7L3-uha5/view?usp=sharing and upload the zip folder "Data" with all the data necessary. It has size of around 3GB.
- The folder should be unzipped, and the "Data" folder should be saved (check the unzip folder, if there is a dublicated "Data" folder, extract that inner "Data" folder. The "Data" folder should contain only .csv files and no folders.)
- The "Data" folder should be in the "Capstone" folder, near all six folders that has (X*) in the names(where * is number from 1 to 6)
- The files should be run in accordance of the numbering of the folders. So that, running should start from (X1), then (X2), and so on. If the folder contains several files, just run in order as presented in the folder.

# The modules that are used for this project
numpy  
pandas  
matplotlib  
sklearn    
lightgbm   
xgboost  
missingpy    
sys    
warnings    
autotime    
statsmodels.api  
pandas_bokeh    
pgeocode    
geopandas    
shapely.geometry  
plotly.graph_objects  
plotly.express  
base64  
datetime  
io  
jupyter_dash  
dash  
dash.dependencies  
dash_table_experiments  
dash.dash_table.Format    


### LightGBM and XGBoost should be installed according to the guide presented in the documentation web pages:
 - https://lightgbm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Installation-Guide.html
 - https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/en/release_0.90/build.html

### Note that all datas are generated by the files presented except the following 3 .csv files:
- "AP_ModelTraining20220118.csv"
- "AP_ScoringSet20220306.csv"
- "data_for_validation_vizual.csv"

### The Validation(X6) folder contains dash.ipynb file, which is an example of visualization
- The validation_functions.py file contains functions that the dash.ipynb uses for analysis.
- To see the dashboard, run the first chunk of dash.ipynb file.
- Go to LocalHost:8040 to see the dash
- Upload the file "data_for_validation_vizual.csv" (it is just a small sample of the validation data, it will provide faster results)
- wait a little until the datatable is drawn
- "Create Graph" button will draw the map graph 
 
